ACT III SCENE I
    The wood. TITANIA lying asleep.
 	Enter QUINCE, SNUG, BOTTOM, FLUTE, SNOUT, and STARVELING.

Bottom 	Are we all met?
Quince 	Pat, pat; and here's a marvellous convenient place
 	    for our rehearsal. This green plot shall be our
 	    stage, this hawthorn-brake our tiring-house; and we
 	    will do it in action as we will do it before the duke.
Bottom  Peter Quince,
Quince 	What sayest thou, bully Bottom?
Bottom  There are things in this comedy of Pyramus and
 	    Thisby that will never please. First, Pyramus must
 	    draw a sword to kill himself; which the ladies
 	    cannot abide. How answer you that?
Snout 	By'r lakin, a parlous fear.
Starveling 	I believe we must leave the killing out, when all is done.

Bottom  Not a whit: I have a device to make all well.
 	    Write me a prologue; and let the prologue seem to
 	    say, we will do no harm with our swords, and that
 	    Pyramus is not killed indeed; and, for the more
 	    better assurance, tell them that I, Pyramus, am not
 	    Pyramus, but Bottom the weaver: this will put them
 	    out of fear.
Quince 	Well, we will have such a prologue; and it shall be
 	    written in eight and six.
Bottom 	No, make it two more; let it be written in eight and eight.
Snout 	Will not the ladies be afeard of the lion?
Starveling 	I fear it, I promise you.
Bottom 	Masters, you ought to consider with yourselves: to
 	    bring in--God shield us!--a lion among ladies, is a
 	    most dreadful thing; for there is not a more fearful
 	    wild-fowl than your lion living; and we ought to
 	    look to 't.
Snout 	Therefore another prologue must tell he is not a lion.
Bottom 	Nay, you must name his name, and half his face must
 	    be seen through the lion's neck: and he himself
 	    must speak through, saying thus, or to the same
 	    defect,--'Ladies,'--or 'Fair-ladies--I would wish
 	    You,'--or 'I would request you,'--or 'I would
 	    entreat you,--not to fear, not to tremble: my life
 	    for yours. If you think I come hither as a lion, it
 	    were pity of my life: no I am no such thing; I am a
 	    man as other men are;' and there indeed let him name
 	    his name, and tell them plainly he is Snug the joiner.
Quince 	Well it shall be so. But there is two hard things;
 	    that is, to bring the moonlight into a chamber; for,
 	    you know, Pyramus and Thisby meet by moonlight.
Snout 	Doth the moon shine that night we play our play?
Bottom 	A calendar, a calendar! look in the almanac; find
 	    out moonshine, find out moonshine.
Quince 	Yes, it doth shine that night.
Bottom 	Why, then may you leave a casement of the great
 	    chamber window, where we play, open, and the moon
 	    may shine in at the casement.
Quince 	Ay; or else one must come in with a bush of thorns
        and a lanthorn, and say he comes to disfigure, or to
 	    present, the person of Moonshine. Then, there is
 	    another thing: we must have a wall in the great
 	    chamber; for Pyramus and Thisby says the story, did
 	    talk through the chink of a wall.
Snout 	You can never bring in a wall. What say you, Bottom?
Bottom 	Some man or other must present Wall: and let him
 	    have some plaster, or some loam, or some rough-cast
 	    about him, to signify wall; and let him hold his
 	    fingers thus, and through that cranny shall Pyramus
 	    and Thisby whisper.
Quince 	If that may be, then all is well. Come, sit down,
 	    every mother's son, and rehearse your parts.
 	    Pyramus, you begin: when you have spoken your
 	    speech, enter into that brake: and so every one
 	    according to his cue.
 	    Enter Puck behind.
Puck 	What hempen home-spuns have we swaggering here,
 	    So near the cradle of the fairy queen?
 	    What, a play toward! I'll be an auditor;
 	    An actor too, perhaps, if I see cause.
Quince 	Speak, Pyramus. Thisby, stand forth.
Bottom 	Thisby, the flowers of odious savours sweet,--
Quince 	Odours, odours.
Bottom 	odours savours sweet:
 	    So hath thy breath, my dearest Thisby dear.
 	    But hark, a voice! stay thou but here awhile,
 	    And by and by I will to thee appear.
 	    Exit
Puck 	[Aside.] A stranger Pyramus than e'er played here.
 	    Exit.
Flute 	Must I speak now?
Quince 	Ay, marry, must you; for you must understand he goes
 	    but to see a noise that he heard, and is to come again.
Flute 	Most radiant Pyramus, most lily-white of hue,
 	    Of colour like the red rose on triumphant brier,
 	    Most brisky juvenal and eke most lovely Jew,
 	    As true as truest horse that yet would never tire,
 	    I'll meet thee, Pyramus, at Ninny's tomb.
Quince 	'Ninus' tomb,' man: why, you must not speak that
 	    yet; that you answer to Pyramus: you speak all your
 	    part at once, cues and all Pyramus enter: your cue
 	    is past; it is, 'never tire.'
Flute 	O, As true as truest horse, that yet would
 	    never tire.
 	    Re-enter PUCK, and BOTTOM with an ass's head.
Bottom 	If I were fair, Thisby, I were only thine:
Quince 	O monstrous! O strange! we are haunted. Pray,
 	    masters! fly, masters! Help!
 	    Exit QUINCE, SNUG, FLUTE, SNOUT, and STARVELING.
Puck 	I'll follow you, I'll lead you about a round,
 	    Through bog, through bush, through brake, through brier:
 	    Sometime a horse I'll be, sometime a hound,
 	    A hog, a headless bear, sometime a fire;
 	    And neigh, and bark, and grunt, and roar, and burn,
 	    Like horse, hound, hog, bear, fire, at every turn.
 	    Exit
Bottom 	Why do they run away? this is a knavery of them to
 	    make me afeard.
 	    Re-enter SNOUT.
Snout 	O Bottom, thou art changed! what do I see on thee?
Bottom 	What do you see? you see an asshead of your own, do you?
 	    Exit SNOUT.
 	    Re-enter QUINCE.
Quince 	Bless thee, Bottom! bless thee! thou art
 	    translated.
 	    Exit
Bottom 	I see their knavery: this is to make an ass of me;
 	    to fright me, if they could. But I will not stir
 	    from this place, do what they can: I will walk up
 	    and down here, and I will sing, that they shall hear
 	    I am not afraid. Sings.'The ousel cock so black of hue,
 	    With orange-tawny bill, The throstle with his note so true,
 	    The wren with little quill,'
Titania Awaking.
Bottom 	Sings.
 	    'The finch, the sparrow and the lark,
 	    The plain-song cuckoo gray,
 	    Whose note full many a man doth mark,
 	    And dares not answer nay;'
 	    for, indeed, who would set his wit to so foolish
 	    a bird? who would give a bird the lie, though he cry
 	    'cuckoo' never so?
Titania 	I pray thee, gentle mortal, sing again:
 	    Mine ear is much enamour'd of thy note;
 	    So is mine eye enthralled to thy shape;
 	    And thy fair virtue's force perforce doth move me
 	    On the first view to say, to swear, I love thee.
BOTTOM 	Methinks, mistress, you should have little reason
 	    for that: and yet, to say the truth, reason and
 	    love keep little company together now-a-days; the
 	    more the pity that some honest neighbours will not
 	    make them friends. Nay, I can gleek upon occasion.
Titania Thou art as wise as thou art beautiful.
BOTTOM 	Not so, neither: but if I had wit enough to get out
 	    of this wood, I have enough to serve mine own turn.
Titania Out of this wood do not desire to go:
 	    Thou shalt remain here, whether thou wilt or no.
 	    I am a spirit of no common rate;
 	    The summer still doth tend upon my state;
 	    And I do love thee: therefore, go with me;
 	    I'll give thee fairies to attend on thee,
 	    And they shall fetch thee jewels from the deep,
 	    And sing while thou on pressed flowers dost sleep;
 	    And I will purge thy mortal grossness so
 	    That thou shalt like an airy spirit go.
 	    Peaseblossom! Cobweb! Moth! and Mustardseed!

 	    Enter PEASEBLOSSOM, COBWEB, MOTH, and MUSTARDSEED.

Peaseblossom 	Ready.
COBWEB 	And I.
MOTH 	And I.
MUSTARDSEED 	And I.
ALL 	Where shall we go?	 150
TITANIA Be kind and courteous to this gentleman;
 	    Hop in his walks and gambol in his eyes;
 	    Feed him with apricocks and dewberries,
 	    With purple grapes, green figs, and mulberries;
 	    The honey-bags steal from the humble-bees,
 	    And for night-tapers crop their waxen thighs
 	    And light them at the fiery glow-worm's eyes,
 	    To have my love to bed and to arise;
 	    And pluck the wings from Painted butterflies
 	    To fan the moonbeams from his sleeping eyes:
 	    Nod to him, elves, and do him courtesies.
Peaseblossom Hail, mortal!
Cobweb 	Hail!
Moth 	Hail!
Mustardseed Hail!
Bottom 	I cry your worship's mercy, heartily: I beseech your
 	    worship's name.
Cobweb 	Cobweb.
Bottom 	I shall desire you of more acquaintance, good Master
 	    Cobweb: if I cut my finger, I shall make bold with
 	    you. Your name, honest gentleman?
Peaseblossom 	Peaseblossom.
Bottom 	I pray you, commend me to Mistress Squash, your
 	    mother, and to Master Peascod, your father. Good
 	    Master Peaseblossom, I shall desire you of more
 	    acquaintance too. Your name, I beseech you, sir?
Mustardseed 	Mustardseed.
Bottom 	Good Master Mustardseed, I know your patience well:
 	    that same cowardly, giant-like ox-beef hath
 	    devoured many a gentleman of your house: I promise
 	    you your kindred had made my eyes water ere now. I
 	    desire your more acquaintance, good Master
 	    Mustardseed.
Titania Come, wait upon him; lead him to my bower.
 	    The moon methinks looks with a watery eye;
 	    And when she weeps, weeps every little flower,
 	    Lamenting some enforced chastity.
 	    Tie up my love's tongue bring him silently